Alright this
other exercise is a little bit different than the other exercises you have done in this section.
I want you to code along with me like this, so let's declare
a constant called movies, we set this to an array
objects. In this array we're going to have for movie objects
in each movie we're going to have 3 properties,
title, set the first one to a, and then the second
property is year, we set this to 2018,
and the first property is rating which we set to 4
.5. Now let's duplicate this a few times, so hold
down shift alt and the down arrow.
With this we can easily duplicate the current line, but
change the title of each movie, so, the second one
is going to be b, and then c, and then d. And then
change the year of the last movie to 2017.
And finally change the ratings to 4.7
3. And 4.
5. Now with this array of movies, your exercise
is to write code to get all the movies
in 2018, with rating greater
than 4. I want you to sort them by their rating
in a descending order.
So movies that have a higher rating should come first, then
I want you to only pick their title property,
and display it on the console. So the result,
should be b and a. That is what you should see on the console.
So go ahead, spend 5 minutes on this exercise, and you'll see my
solution next.
Alright so we want to filter movies
by their year and rating. So movies
.filter, here we pass an
arrow function, so m as in short for movie goes to
m.year should equal 2018,
and m.rating should be greater than
or equal to 4. So that's the first part. So that's the first part. Our
filter. Next we're going to sort them by their rating. So,
as you learned earlier these methods are chainable, because
filter returns a new array, so we can immediately apply
the sort method on that array. Now as you learned earlier,
the sort method by default only works for numbers and strings,
and objects we need to supply a comparison function. So,
here once again I'm going to use an arrow function that takes
a and b, so these are two movie objects in our movies array,
so a and b goes to
and basically if a is less than b we want to return
minus 1 or a negative value, if they are equal
you want to return 0, and if a is greater than b, you want
to return plus 1 or a positive value.
A simple way to implement this is like this. So I'm going to delete all this,
and the curly braces. We simply get the rating
of a, and subtract it from
the rating of b. So let's say the
rating of a is 4.5 and the rating of b is 4.
When we subtract a from b we get 0.5
and that's a positive number, so that means a is greater than b.
Now if both these ratings are equal, we'll get 0,
and that means a equals b. So we don't need three if statements
here to return minus 1, plus. 1, or minus 0.
Okay? You simply subtract these values.
Now, the sort method returns values
sorted in an ascending order, but what we want here is
descending order, so we need to call the reverse method,
change the order of these movies, and finally to
pick only their title, you want to use their map method, so map,
we get a movie object, pass an arrow function
so m goes to m.title. That's the
code we should have written. So let's store the result in a constant
called titles, and finally display them
on the console. So, we get b
and a.